src/content/integration/stacked_prs/others.mdx, before:

import { Info } from '../../../components/Alerts';

## Using Mergify with Stacked PRs

Mergify supports stacked PRs with just a few configurations. This guide
assumes that you are familiar with the concept of [stacked PRs](https://timothya.com/blog/git-stack).

### Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have the following prerequisites in place:

- A GitHub repository ready for Mergify usage.

Optional:

- [GitHub CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli#readme) is installed and ready to
  use. If you don't want to install GitHub CLI, you can manually reproduce `gh`
  commands directly on GitHub.

### Step 1: Building our Sample Stack of Pull Requests

Assuming your "trunk branch" is named `main`, execute the following
commands in your repository folder to build three branches stacked
on top of each other over `main`:

```shell
git checkout main
git pull

git checkout -b "A"
echo nul > "file_A"
git add "file_A"
git commit -a -m "A"

git checkout -b "B"
echo nul > "file_B"
git add "file_B"
git commit -a -m "B"

git checkout -b "C"
echo nul > "file_C"
git add "file_C"
git commit -a -m "C"
```

You should have the following structure in your repository:

```text
o C
│
o B
│
o A
│
o main
│
:
```

Submit your stack by running the following command.
For the three branches, when asking, push them to your remote:

```shell
git switch A
gh pr create --title A --body "PR A" --base main
git switch B
gh pr create --title B --body "PR B" --base A
git switch C
gh pr create --title C --body "PR C" --base B
```

<Info>
  If you don't use `gh`, push branches A, B and C on GitHub and create the three PRs manually. Make sure to correctly set the base branch for each PR (A on main, B on A and C on B).
</Info>

### Step 2: Configuring Your Repository

To ensure that stacked PRs work seamlessly with Mergify, activate the
**Automatically Delete Head Branches** setting on your GitHub repository.
Enabling this setting allows GitHub to automatically delete the head
branch upon PR merge and change the base branch of upstack PRs to the
branch in which the PR was merged.

For example, in our sample stack, when PR A is merged into `main`,
enabling this setting will delete branch A and change the base
branch of PR B from A to `main`.

To activate **Automatically delete head branches**, follow the steps
outlined in the [GitHub documentation: Managing the automatic deletion
of branches](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/configuring-pull-request-merges/managing-the-automatic-deletion-of-branches).

### Step 3: Configuring Mergify

To configure Mergify for your repository, modify the [.mergify.yml configuration file](/configuration/file-format)
on the `main` branch. Set a condition on the `base` attribute to be equal
to the name of your trunk branch (`main` in our sample stack). This ensures
that Mergify only merges a PR that is at the bottom of its stack.

Here is a sample of what your `.mergify.yml` file could look like
for our sample stack:

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: Merge on approval
    conditions:
      - label=Approved
      - base=main
    actions:
      queue:
        name: default

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    queue_conditions:
      - base=main
```

<Info>
  We assume that you are following this guide alone, so we can't use the PR approval system since authors can't approve their own PR. We will mimic approval by adding a label.
</Info>

If you make changes to your Mergify configuration file,
make sure your changes are on the `main` branch and that
your stack is up to date. Execute the following commands to ensure this:

```shell
git switch main
git pull
git switch A
git merge main --no-edit
git push
git switch B
git merge A --no-edit
git pull
git switch C
git merge B --no-edit
git push
```

### Step 4: Let the Magic Happen

Now that everything is set up, you can go to GitHub and "approve" PR A by
adding the `Approved` label. Wait a few seconds and observe Mergify
automatically merging PR A into `main`. GitHub will then delete branch
A and set `main` as the base branch for PR B.

Suppose PR B is not yet ready, but PR C is. Approve PR C with the label
and wait as long as you want. Nothing will happen until PR B is approved.
As soon as PR B is approved, it will be merged into `main`, and GitHub
will handle the branch changes accordingly. PR C will then be merged into `main`.

Commit message:

docs(stacked_prs): add logo, title and missing entries in index (#1714)

src/content/integration/stacked_prs/others.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Mergify with stacked PRs
description: Learn how you can use Mergify with stacked PRs.
---

import { Info } from '../../../components/Alerts/Info';

Mergify supports stacked PRs with just a few configurations. This guide assumes
that you are familiar with the concept of [stacked
PRs](https://timothya.com/blog/git-stack).

### Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have the following prerequisites in place:

- A GitHub repository ready for Mergify usage.

Optional:

- [GitHub CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli#readme) is installed and ready to
  use. If you don't want to install GitHub CLI, you can manually reproduce `gh`
  commands directly on GitHub.

### Step 1: Building our Sample Stack of Pull Requests

Assuming your "trunk branch" is named `main`, execute the following
commands in your repository folder to build three branches stacked
on top of each other over `main`:

```shell
git checkout main
git pull

git checkout -b "A"
echo nul > "file_A"
git add "file_A"
git commit -a -m "A"

git checkout -b "B"
echo nul > "file_B"
git add "file_B"
git commit -a -m "B"

git checkout -b "C"
echo nul > "file_C"
git add "file_C"
git commit -a -m "C"
```

You should have the following structure in your repository:

```text
o C
│
o B
│
o A
│
o main
│
:
```

Submit your stack by running the following command.
For the three branches, when asking, push them to your remote:

```shell
git switch A
gh pr create --title A --body "PR A" --base main
git switch B
gh pr create --title B --body "PR B" --base A
git switch C
gh pr create --title C --body "PR C" --base B
```

<Info>
  If you don't use `gh`, push branches A, B and C on GitHub and create the three PRs manually. Make sure to correctly set the base branch for each PR (A on main, B on A and C on B).
</Info>

### Step 2: Configuring Your Repository

To ensure that stacked PRs work seamlessly with Mergify, activate the
**Automatically Delete Head Branches** setting on your GitHub repository.
Enabling this setting allows GitHub to automatically delete the head
branch upon PR merge and change the base branch of upstack PRs to the
branch in which the PR was merged.

For example, in our sample stack, when PR A is merged into `main`,
enabling this setting will delete branch A and change the base
branch of PR B from A to `main`.

To activate **Automatically delete head branches**, follow the steps
outlined in the [GitHub documentation: Managing the automatic deletion
of branches](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/configuring-pull-request-merges/managing-the-automatic-deletion-of-branches).

### Step 3: Configuring Mergify

To configure Mergify for your repository, modify the [.mergify.yml configuration file](/configuration/file-format)
on the `main` branch. Set a condition on the `base` attribute to be equal
to the name of your trunk branch (`main` in our sample stack). This ensures
that Mergify only merges a PR that is at the bottom of its stack.

Here is a sample of what your `.mergify.yml` file could look like
for our sample stack:

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: Merge on approval
    conditions:
      - label=Approved
      - base=main
    actions:
      queue:
        name: default

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    queue_conditions:
      - base=main
```

<Info>
  We assume that you are following this guide alone, so we can't use the PR approval system since authors can't approve their own PR. We will mimic approval by adding a label.
</Info>

If you make changes to your Mergify configuration file,
make sure your changes are on the `main` branch and that
your stack is up to date. Execute the following commands to ensure this:

```shell
git switch main
git pull
git switch A
git merge main --no-edit
git push
git switch B
git merge A --no-edit
git pull
git switch C
git merge B --no-edit
git push
```

### Step 4: Let the Magic Happen

Now that everything is set up, you can go to GitHub and "approve" PR A by
adding the `Approved` label. Wait a few seconds and observe Mergify
automatically merging PR A into `main`. GitHub will then delete branch
A and set `main` as the base branch for PR B.

Suppose PR B is not yet ready, but PR C is. Approve PR C with the label
and wait as long as you want. Nothing will happen until PR B is approved.
As soon as PR B is approved, it will be merged into `main`, and GitHub
will handle the branch changes accordingly. PR C will then be merged into `main`.
