src/content/billing.mdx, before:

---
title: Understanding Mergify Billing System
description: Understand how Mergify fair billing works.
---

import { Info } from "../components/Alerts/Info"
import { Screenshot } from "../components/Images"
import UsageScreenshot from "./images/billing/usage.png"
import InvoicePreviousPeriod from "./images/billing/invoice-previous-period.png"
import InvoiceNextPeriod from "./images/billing/invoice-next-period.png"

At Mergify, our goal is to offer you a transparent and efficient billing system
that meets your needs. Here's a comprehensive guide to help you grasp how our
billing system functions:

## Plans Overview

We offer multiple plans tailored to provide various features. At present, we
primarily offer two distinct plans:

- **Advanced Plan**: giving access to all our features.

- **Enterprise Plan**: An on-premise plan specifically designed for those
utilizing GitHub Enterprise Server (GHES).

<Info>
  We had previously offered other plans, but currently, these two are our main
  available. If you want to migrate to another plan, see [Switching or
  Cancelling Plans](#switching-or-cancelling-plans).
</Info>

## Active User-Based Billing

Many enterprise solutions charge per user, irrespective of actual usage. At
Mergify, we firmly believe in billing you only for what you actively use.

This is why our billing system operates on the principle of active users.
Here's how it works:

- An active user is any individual who **engages in activities on a
  repository**. This includes opening, closing, commenting, pushing or
  reviewing a pull request.

- Each user is counted **only once**, even if they're active across multiple
  repositories.

- The system uses a 30-day sliding window approach. This means a user is
  regarded as *active* for 30 days from their last activity. Post this period,
  if no further activity is detected, they are no longer considered 8active*
  for billing purposes.

- Usage is prorated to the day: if a user is seen active during 48 days, the
  system only bills for precisely 48 days — not 2 entire months.

## Collaborator-Based Billing

For specific scenarios, like public repositories, we offer an alternative
billing mode based on the number of collaborators. This mode isn't the default,
but can be requested through our support.

A collaborator is identified as any user granted write access (or higher) to a
repository.

<Info>
  Collaborator-based billing might only be advantageous if your repository has
  many transient contributors but only a few maintainers or core contributors
  with write access.
</Info>

## Annual Subscription

Mergify does not require an annual subscription, but offer substantial discount
if you buy users for a 12-months period.

An annual subscription allows you to buy a base of number of seats (users) at
the start of the year.

If your usage goes beyond the pre-purchased seats, additional seats are billed
monthly, prorated to the exact day of use.

You can subscribe to a yearly plan at any time by contacting your customer
representative.

{/* FIXME: add a button that opens intercom */}

## Checking Current Usage

You can check your current usage by going through [Mergify
dashboard](https://dashboard.mergify.com) and clicking on the Usage panel.

<Screenshot src={UsageScreenshot} alt="Mergify usage panel"/>

## Switching or Cancelling Plans

If you wish to switch between plans or cancel your subscription, please contact
our customer support. They'll guide you through the process and ensure a smooth
transition.

{/* FIXME: add a button that opens intercom */}

## Understanding Your Invoice

Our billing system aims for fairness, but its dynamic nature may result in
invoices that can be complex to understand at first glance. Each invoice
comprises two main sections.

### 1. **Real-time User Adjustment**

Our system continually monitors the number of users in your repositories and
adjusts your bill in real-time. On your invoice, you might see line items
labeled "remaining" and "unused time." These adjustments occur whenever there's
a change in your user count.

For instance, if the system identifies a change in your user count, it will
credit you for the number of users you previously paid for, prorated by day. It
then charges for the updated user count for the remaining days of the billing
cycle.

In the following example, the initial bill was for 76 users. As this grew to
77, the system credited the $1,360.92 previously paid. It then charges
$1,378.83, leading to an increase of $17.91 to account for the additional user
for the rest of the month.

<figure>
  <Screenshot src={InvoicePreviousPeriod} alt="Invoice for previous period"/>
  <figcaption>Invoice lines detailing adjustments from the previous period.</figcaption>
</figure>

### 2. **Upcoming Period Charge**

The latter part of the invoice projects your charges for the next billing
cycle, such as from Jul 14th to Aug 14th. This charge is based on the current
number of active users. If there's a change in this user count during this
period, the subsequent invoice will account for this, similar to the real-time
adjustment mentioned earlier.

<figure>
  <Screenshot src={InvoiceNextPeriod} alt="Invoice for next period"/>
  <figcaption>Invoice lines for the upcoming billing period.</figcaption>
</figure>

By understanding these two sections, you can more easily interpret and
anticipate how changes in your active users influence your Mergify charges.

Commit message:

docs(billing): add email link (#2279)
Change-Id: I497ee19df6d8706cb7554f58ab233222b661d135

src/content/billing.mdx, after:

---
title: Understanding Mergify Billing System
description: Understand how Mergify fair billing works.
---

import { PrimaryLink } from '../components/RelativeLink';
import { Info } from "../components/Alerts/Info"
import { Screenshot } from "../components/Images"
import UsageScreenshot from "./images/billing/usage.png"
import InvoicePreviousPeriod from "./images/billing/invoice-previous-period.png"
import InvoiceNextPeriod from "./images/billing/invoice-next-period.png"

At Mergify, our goal is to offer you a transparent and efficient billing system
that meets your needs. Here's a comprehensive guide to help you grasp how our
billing system functions:

## Plans Overview

We offer multiple plans tailored to provide various features. At present, we
primarily offer two distinct plans:

- **Advanced Plan**: giving access to all our features.

- **Enterprise Plan**: An on-premise plan specifically designed for those
utilizing GitHub Enterprise Server (GHES).

<Info>
  We had previously offered other plans, but currently, these two are our main
  available. If you want to migrate to another plan, see [Switching or
  Cancelling Plans](#switching-or-cancelling-plans).
</Info>

## Active User-Based Billing

Many enterprise solutions charge per user, irrespective of actual usage. At
Mergify, we firmly believe in billing you only for what you actively use.

This is why our billing system operates on the principle of active users.
Here's how it works:

- An active user is any individual who **engages in activities on a
  repository**. This includes opening, closing, commenting, pushing or
  reviewing a pull request.

- Each user is counted **only once**, even if they're active across multiple
  repositories.

- The system uses a 30-day sliding window approach. This means a user is
  regarded as *active* for 30 days from their last activity. Post this period,
  if no further activity is detected, they are no longer considered 8active*
  for billing purposes.

- Usage is prorated to the day: if a user is seen active during 48 days, the
  system only bills for precisely 48 days — not 2 entire months.

## Collaborator-Based Billing

For specific scenarios, like public repositories, we offer an alternative
billing mode based on the number of collaborators. This mode isn't the default,
but can be requested through our support.

A collaborator is identified as any user granted write access (or higher) to a
repository.

<Info>
  Collaborator-based billing might only be advantageous if your repository has
  many transient contributors but only a few maintainers or core contributors
  with write access.
</Info>

## Annual Subscription

Mergify does not require an annual subscription, but offer substantial discount
if you buy users for a 12-months period.

An annual subscription allows you to buy a base of number of seats (users) at
the start of the year.

If your usage goes beyond the pre-purchased seats, additional seats are billed
monthly, prorated to the exact day of use.

You can subscribe to a yearly plan at any time by contacting <PrimaryLink
href="mailto:support@mergify.com">your customer representative</PrimaryLink>.

## Checking Current Usage

You can check your current usage by going through [Mergify
dashboard](https://dashboard.mergify.com) and clicking on the Usage panel.

<Screenshot src={UsageScreenshot} alt="Mergify usage panel"/>

## Switching or Cancelling Plans

If you wish to switch between plans or cancel your subscription, <PrimaryLink
href="mailto:support@mergify.com">please contact our customer
support</PrimaryLink>. They'll guide you through the process and ensure a
smooth transition.

## Understanding Your Invoice

Our billing system aims for fairness, but its dynamic nature may result in
invoices that can be complex to understand at first glance. Each invoice
comprises two main sections.

### 1. **Real-time User Adjustment**

Our system continually monitors the number of users in your repositories and
adjusts your bill in real-time. On your invoice, you might see line items
labeled "remaining" and "unused time." These adjustments occur whenever there's
a change in your user count.

For instance, if the system identifies a change in your user count, it will
credit you for the number of users you previously paid for, prorated by day. It
then charges for the updated user count for the remaining days of the billing
cycle.

In the following example, the initial bill was for 76 users. As this grew to
77, the system credited the $1,360.92 previously paid. It then charges
$1,378.83, leading to an increase of $17.91 to account for the additional user
for the rest of the month.

<figure>
  <Screenshot src={InvoicePreviousPeriod} alt="Invoice for previous period"/>
  <figcaption>Invoice lines detailing adjustments from the previous period.</figcaption>
</figure>

### 2. **Upcoming Period Charge**

The latter part of the invoice projects your charges for the next billing
cycle, such as from Jul 14th to Aug 14th. This charge is based on the current
number of active users. If there's a change in this user count during this
period, the subsequent invoice will account for this, similar to the real-time
adjustment mentioned earlier.

<figure>
  <Screenshot src={InvoiceNextPeriod} alt="Invoice for next period"/>
  <figcaption>Invoice lines for the upcoming billing period.</figcaption>
</figure>

By understanding these two sections, you can more easily interpret and
anticipate how changes in your active users influence your Mergify charges.
