src/content/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Mergify Documentation
description: Explore & learn Mergify
toc: false
---

import {ButtonGroup, VStack} from '@chakra-ui/react';
import {
  CommunityButton,
  Docset,
  DocsetGrid,
} from '../components/HomePage';
import { BiBadgeCheck, BiCut } from 'react-icons/bi';
import {SiSlack, SiGithub, SiTwitter, SiYoutube, SiLinkedin} from 'react-icons/si';
import {SlRefresh, SlSpeedometer} from 'react-icons/sl';
import {MdMonitorHeart} from 'react-icons/md';
import {GoGitMerge, GoGitCommit, GoCodeReview} from 'react-icons/go';
import {BsPatchQuestion, BsRocket, BsPlugin, BsStack, BsDoorOpen, BsLightningCharge, BsListTask, BsRobot, BsChatText, BsType, BsCommand} from 'react-icons/bs';
import {BiSolidCoinStack, BiRuler} from 'react-icons/bi';
import {TbCrystalBall, TbPackages} from 'react-icons/tb';
import {FaStairs, FaCirclePlay, FaRegLightbulb, FaGear, FaTrafficLight, FaSnowflake, FaMoneyBill1} from 'react-icons/fa6';
import {FaShieldAlt, FaRegListAlt} from 'react-icons/fa';
import {AiOutlinePartition, AiOutlineDeploymentUnit, AiOutlineFile, AiOutlineApi} from 'react-icons/ai';
import {LiaShareAltSolid} from 'react-icons/lia';
import {FiType} from 'react-icons/fi';
import {IoIosRemoveCircleOutline} from 'react-icons/io';

Welcome to Mergify Documentation. 
Explore our guides and examples on how to integrate Mergify.

## Workflow Automation

Automate your GitHub pull requests workflow.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
    icon={<FaCirclePlay/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Writing Your First Rule"
    description="Write your first automation rule using Mergify workflow automation."
    path="/workflow/writing-your-first-rule"
    icon={<BiRuler/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Actions"
    description="A complete list of actions you can use with Mergify."
    path="/workflow/actions"
    icon={<BsRocket />}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

### Workflow Automation Use Cases

Discover a list of use cases that you can leverage with Mergify. Get inspired
and adapt it to your own needs.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Automatic Merge"
    description="Merge your pull requests as soon as they are ready."
    path="/workflow/automerge"
    icon={<GoGitMerge/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Request Reviews"
    description="Enhance your review workflow with customized, efficient, and dynamic review assignments tailored to your needs."
    path="/workflow/request-reviews"
    icon={<GoCodeReview/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Delete Head Branches"
    description="How to automatically delete head branches."
    path="/workflow/delete-head-branches"
    icon={<BiCut/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Dismiss Reviews"
    description="Optimize your pull request workflow, tailoring review dismissal to specific scenarios and users."
    path="/workflow/dismiss-reviews"
    icon={<IoIosRemoveCircleOutline/>}
  />
  {/*
  <Docset
    title="Posting Comments"
    description="Post comments to help your teammates."
    path="/workflow/comments"
    icon={<BsChatText/>}
  />
  */}
</DocsetGrid>

{/*
<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Backporting"
    description="Understand how to backports pull requests from one branch to another."
    path="/workflow/backports"
    icon={<BsDoorOpen/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Triggering CI conditionally"
    description="Optimize your CI cost and run by triggering it only when necessary."
    path="/workflow/trigger-ci"
    icon={<BsListTask/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Resolving Conflicts Faster"
    description="Be aware as soon as a pull request is in conflict to reduce merge latency."
    path="/workflow/pull-requests-conflicts"
    icon={<BsLightningCharge/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Commit Message Template"
    description="Make sure your Git history is properly formatted with commit message template."
    path="/workflow/commit-message-template"
    icon={<GoGitCommit/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Enforce Semantic Pull Requests"
    description="Make sure your pull requests change format follows your guidelines."
    path="/workflow/semantic-pull-requests"
    icon={<BsType/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

*/}

## Merge Queue

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
    icon={<FaCirclePlay/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Introduction to Merge Queues"
    description="Understand what merge queues are and how to use them."
    path="/merge-queue/intro"
    icon={<FaRegLightbulb/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Setting Up Your First Merge Queue"
    description="Implement your first merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/setup"
    icon={<FaGear/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Pull Request Lifecycle"
    description="Understand the lifecycle of a pull request before and once it enters a merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/lifecycle"
    icon={<SlRefresh/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Piorities"
    description="Learn how to order your pull requests in the queue by priority."
    path="/merge-queue/priority"
    icon={<FaTrafficLight/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Freeze"
    description="Learn how to freeze your merge queues during incidents or planned events."
    path="/merge-queue/freeze"
    icon={<FaSnowflake/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Multiple Queues"
    description="Learn how to implement multiple merge queues and route your pull requests."
    path="/merge-queue/multi"
    icon={<BiSolidCoinStack/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Speculative Checks"
    description="Accelerates the merging process by testing the compatibility of multiple queued pull requests in parallel."
    path="/merge-queue/speculative-checks"
    icon={<TbCrystalBall/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Batches"
    description="Increase your merge queue throughput and decrease your CI usage."
    path="/merge-queue/batches"
    icon={<TbPackages/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Two-Step CI"
    description="Run essential tests on every PR and comprehensive tests before merging, optimizing CI time and resources."
    path="/merge-queue/two-step"
    icon={<FaStairs/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Partitions"
    description="Optimize your merge queue for monorepos."
    path="/merge-queue/partitions"
    icon={<AiOutlinePartition/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Performance"
    description="Optimizing your merge queue for maximum efficiency."
    path="/merge-queue/performance"
    icon={<SlSpeedometer/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Deployment"
    description="Smoothly transition to Mergify while optimizing the merge queue and potentially moving to Mergify exclusive merges."
    path="/merge-queue/deploy"
    icon={<AiOutlineDeploymentUnit/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Monitoring"
    description="Monitor key metrics of your merge queue to optimize throughput and reduce latency, ensuring a streamlined development cycle."
    path="/merge-queue/monitoring"
    icon={<MdMonitorHeart/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Technical Reference

Detailed documentation about every part of Mergify.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Configuration File Format"
    description="Details of the configuration file format."
    path="/configuration/file-format"
    icon={<AiOutlineFile />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Sharing Configuration"
    description="Share and reuse configuration pieces in your configuration.."
    path="/configuration/sharing"
    icon={<LiaShareAltSolid/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Conditions"
    description="Everything you need to know when writing your conditions."
    path="/configuration/conditions"
    icon={<BsPatchQuestion />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Configuration Data Types"
    description="Details of the data types found in the configuration"
    path="/configuration/data-types"
    icon={<FiType />}
  />
 <Docset
    title="Commands"
    description="Complete list of commands you can use with Mergify."
    path="/commands"
    icon={<BsCommand />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="API Usage"
    description="Integrate with Mergify using its API."
    path="/api-usage"
    icon={<AiOutlineApi />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="API Reference"
    description="Complete Mergify API reference."
    path="/api"
    icon={<FaRegListAlt/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Other

<DocsetGrid>
 <Docset
    title="Integrations"
    description="Integration with other systems."
    path="/integrations"
    icon={<BsPlugin />}
  />
   <Docset
    title="Stacked PRs"
    description="How to create and manage stacked PRs."
    path="/stacked_prs"
    icon={<BsStack />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Badge"
    description="Display your Mergify usage publicly."
    path="/badge"
    icon={<BiBadgeCheck />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Security"
    description="Discussing Mergify's security."
    path="/security"
    icon={<FaShieldAlt/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Billing"
    description="How Mergify billing works."
    path="/billing"
    icon={<FaMoneyBill1/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<VStack pt="4" spacing="4" textAlign="center" maxW="md" mx="auto">

### Join our Community 💬

We love hearing from you! Here are a few ways you can connect with us and other Mergify community members.

<ButtonGroup variant="ghost">
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://github.com/Mergifyio/mergify/discussions"
    icon={<SiGithub />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.youtube.com/@mergifyio"
    icon={<SiYoutube />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://slack.mergify.com"
    icon={<SiSlack />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://twitter.com/mergifyio"
    icon={<SiTwitter />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.linkedin.com/company/mergify/"
    icon={<SiLinkedin />}
  />
</ButtonGroup>

</VStack>

Commit message:

docs: document permissions system in Mergify (#2564)
Fixes MRGFY-1129

Change-Id: Ia1f89135fec2ad4e196e581e8c9b2f564383972b

src/content/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Mergify Documentation
description: Explore & learn Mergify
toc: false
---

import {ButtonGroup, VStack} from '@chakra-ui/react';
import {
  CommunityButton,
  Docset,
  DocsetGrid,
} from '../components/HomePage';
import { BiBadgeCheck, BiCut } from 'react-icons/bi';
import {SiSlack, SiGithub, SiTwitter, SiYoutube, SiLinkedin} from 'react-icons/si';
import {SlRefresh, SlSpeedometer} from 'react-icons/sl';
import {MdMonitorHeart} from 'react-icons/md';
import {GoGitMerge, GoGitCommit, GoCodeReview} from 'react-icons/go';
import {BsPatchQuestion, BsRocket, BsPlugin, BsStack, BsDoorOpen, BsLightningCharge, BsListTask, BsRobot, BsChatText, BsType, BsCommand} from 'react-icons/bs';
import {BiSolidCoinStack, BiRuler} from 'react-icons/bi';
import {TbCrystalBall, TbPackages} from 'react-icons/tb';
import {FaStairs, FaCirclePlay, FaRegLightbulb, FaGear, FaTrafficLight, FaSnowflake, FaMoneyBill1} from 'react-icons/fa6';
import {FaShieldAlt, FaRegListAlt} from 'react-icons/fa';
import {AiOutlinePartition, AiOutlineDeploymentUnit, AiOutlineFile, AiOutlineApi} from 'react-icons/ai';
import {LiaShareAltSolid} from 'react-icons/lia';
import {FiType} from 'react-icons/fi';
import {IoIosRemoveCircleOutline} from 'react-icons/io';

Welcome to Mergify Documentation. 
Explore our guides and examples on how to integrate Mergify.

## Workflow Automation

Automate your GitHub pull requests workflow.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
    icon={<FaCirclePlay/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Writing Your First Rule"
    description="Write your first automation rule using Mergify workflow automation."
    path="/workflow/writing-your-first-rule"
    icon={<BiRuler/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Actions"
    description="A complete list of actions you can use with Mergify."
    path="/workflow/actions"
    icon={<BsRocket />}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

### Workflow Automation Use Cases

Discover a list of use cases that you can leverage with Mergify. Get inspired
and adapt it to your own needs.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Automatic Merge"
    description="Merge your pull requests as soon as they are ready."
    path="/workflow/automerge"
    icon={<GoGitMerge/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Request Reviews"
    description="Enhance your review workflow with customized, efficient, and dynamic review assignments tailored to your needs."
    path="/workflow/request-reviews"
    icon={<GoCodeReview/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Delete Head Branches"
    description="How to automatically delete head branches."
    path="/workflow/delete-head-branches"
    icon={<BiCut/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Dismiss Reviews"
    description="Optimize your pull request workflow, tailoring review dismissal to specific scenarios and users."
    path="/workflow/dismiss-reviews"
    icon={<IoIosRemoveCircleOutline/>}
  />
  {/*
  <Docset
    title="Posting Comments"
    description="Post comments to help your teammates."
    path="/workflow/comments"
    icon={<BsChatText/>}
  />
  */}
</DocsetGrid>

{/*
<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Backporting"
    description="Understand how to backports pull requests from one branch to another."
    path="/workflow/backports"
    icon={<BsDoorOpen/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Triggering CI conditionally"
    description="Optimize your CI cost and run by triggering it only when necessary."
    path="/workflow/trigger-ci"
    icon={<BsListTask/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Resolving Conflicts Faster"
    description="Be aware as soon as a pull request is in conflict to reduce merge latency."
    path="/workflow/pull-requests-conflicts"
    icon={<BsLightningCharge/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Commit Message Template"
    description="Make sure your Git history is properly formatted with commit message template."
    path="/workflow/commit-message-template"
    icon={<GoGitCommit/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Enforce Semantic Pull Requests"
    description="Make sure your pull requests change format follows your guidelines."
    path="/workflow/semantic-pull-requests"
    icon={<BsType/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

*/}

## Merge Queue

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
    icon={<FaCirclePlay/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Introduction to Merge Queues"
    description="Understand what merge queues are and how to use them."
    path="/merge-queue/intro"
    icon={<FaRegLightbulb/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Setting Up Your First Merge Queue"
    description="Implement your first merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/setup"
    icon={<FaGear/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Pull Request Lifecycle"
    description="Understand the lifecycle of a pull request before and once it enters a merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/lifecycle"
    icon={<SlRefresh/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Piorities"
    description="Learn how to order your pull requests in the queue by priority."
    path="/merge-queue/priority"
    icon={<FaTrafficLight/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Freeze"
    description="Learn how to freeze your merge queues during incidents or planned events."
    path="/merge-queue/freeze"
    icon={<FaSnowflake/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Multiple Queues"
    description="Learn how to implement multiple merge queues and route your pull requests."
    path="/merge-queue/multi"
    icon={<BiSolidCoinStack/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Speculative Checks"
    description="Accelerates the merging process by testing the compatibility of multiple queued pull requests in parallel."
    path="/merge-queue/speculative-checks"
    icon={<TbCrystalBall/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Batches"
    description="Increase your merge queue throughput and decrease your CI usage."
    path="/merge-queue/batches"
    icon={<TbPackages/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Two-Step CI"
    description="Run essential tests on every PR and comprehensive tests before merging, optimizing CI time and resources."
    path="/merge-queue/two-step"
    icon={<FaStairs/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Partitions"
    description="Optimize your merge queue for monorepos."
    path="/merge-queue/partitions"
    icon={<AiOutlinePartition/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Performance"
    description="Optimizing your merge queue for maximum efficiency."
    path="/merge-queue/performance"
    icon={<SlSpeedometer/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Deployment"
    description="Smoothly transition to Mergify while optimizing the merge queue and potentially moving to Mergify exclusive merges."
    path="/merge-queue/deploy"
    icon={<AiOutlineDeploymentUnit/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Monitoring"
    description="Monitor key metrics of your merge queue to optimize throughput and reduce latency, ensuring a streamlined development cycle."
    path="/merge-queue/monitoring"
    icon={<MdMonitorHeart/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Technical Reference

Detailed documentation about every part of Mergify.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Configuration File Format"
    description="Details of the configuration file format."
    path="/configuration/file-format"
    icon={<AiOutlineFile />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Sharing Configuration"
    description="Share and reuse configuration pieces in your configuration.."
    path="/configuration/sharing"
    icon={<LiaShareAltSolid/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Conditions"
    description="Everything you need to know when writing your conditions."
    path="/configuration/conditions"
    icon={<BsPatchQuestion />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Configuration Data Types"
    description="Details of the data types found in the configuration"
    path="/configuration/data-types"
    icon={<FiType />}
  />
 <Docset
    title="Commands"
    description="Complete list of commands you can use with Mergify."
    path="/commands"
    icon={<BsCommand />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="API Usage"
    description="Integrate with Mergify using its API."
    path="/api-usage"
    icon={<AiOutlineApi />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="API Reference"
    description="Complete Mergify API reference."
    path="/api"
    icon={<FaRegListAlt/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Other

<DocsetGrid>
 <Docset
    title="Integrations"
    description="Integration with other systems."
    path="/integrations"
    icon={<BsPlugin />}
  />
   <Docset
    title="Stacked PRs"
    description="How to create and manage stacked PRs."
    path="/stacked_prs"
    icon={<BsStack />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Badge"
    description="Display your Mergify usage publicly."
    path="/badge"
    icon={<BiBadgeCheck />}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Security"
    description="Learn more about the applications permissions and Mergify's security obsession."
    path="/security"
    icon={<FaShieldAlt/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Billing"
    description="How Mergify billing works."
    path="/billing"
    icon={<FaMoneyBill1/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<VStack pt="4" spacing="4" textAlign="center" maxW="md" mx="auto">

### Join our Community 💬

We love hearing from you! Here are a few ways you can connect with us and other Mergify community members.

<ButtonGroup variant="ghost">
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://github.com/Mergifyio/mergify/discussions"
    icon={<SiGithub />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.youtube.com/@mergifyio"
    icon={<SiYoutube />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://slack.mergify.com"
    icon={<SiSlack />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://twitter.com/mergifyio"
    icon={<SiTwitter />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.linkedin.com/company/mergify/"
    icon={<SiLinkedin />}
  />
</ButtonGroup>

</VStack>
