src/content/security.mdx, before:

---
title: Security
description: Learn more about Mergify security obsession.
---

import { Table, Tbody, Td, Th, Thead, Tr } from '@chakra-ui/react';

At Mergify, security is of utmost importance to us. We understand the crucial
role we play in the software development process and are fully committed to
earning and maintaining the trust of our users. Our Security page is dedicated
to providing transparency regarding our security measures and practices. We
continually strive to improve the safety and reliability of our platform,
ensuring that your repositories and code are well-protected.

## Required Permissions

Below is the list of the required permission on GitHub for
Mergify to function properly.

<Table>
  <Thead>
    <Tr>
      <Th>Permission</Th>
      <Th>Access</Th>
      <Th>Usage</Th>
    </Tr>
  </Thead>
  <Tbody>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Actions</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to read workflow details.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Administration</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to access team details.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Checks</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read and post checks.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Commit statuses</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to read checks status.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Contents</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read repository content and write (merge).</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Issues</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to close issues on merge.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Metadata</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Access repository metadata.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Pages</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Write required to trigger page workflow on merge.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Pull requests</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read and edit pull requests.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Workflows</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read workflows and merge pull requests modifying workflows.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Organization: Members</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to list organization members.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Account: Email addresses</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to read user email addresses.</Td>
    </Tr>
  </Tbody>
</Table>

Commit message:

docs(security): add link to trust report (#1491)

src/content/security.mdx, after:

---
title: Security
description: Learn more about Mergify security obsession.
---

import { Button, ButtonGroup, Table, Tbody, Td, Th, Thead, Tr } from '@chakra-ui/react';

At Mergify, security is of utmost importance to us. We understand the crucial
role we play in the software development process and are fully committed to
earning and maintaining the trust of our users. Our Security page is dedicated
to providing transparency regarding our security measures and practices. We
continually strive to improve the safety and reliability of our platform,
ensuring that your repositories and code are well-protected.

## Trust Report

Our Trust Report is designed to provide transparency and instill confidence in
our customers. By sharing our compliance reports and offering insights into our
security practices, we aim to demonstrate our unwavering dedication to
safeguarding your valuable information.

<a href="https://trust.mergify.com" target="_blank">
  <Button colorScheme='blue' size='lg'
  style={{marginLeft: 'auto', marginRight: 'auto', marginBottom: '2em', display: 'block'}}>
    Trust Report
  </Button>
</a>

We invite you to explore this documentation and learn more about how we
prioritize your trust. Click the button above to access our Trust Report page,
where you will find in-depth information on our security measures and our
ongoing commitment to protecting your data.

## Required Permissions

Below is the list of the required permission on GitHub for
Mergify to function properly.

<Table>
  <Thead>
    <Tr>
      <Th>Permission</Th>
      <Th>Access</Th>
      <Th>Usage</Th>
    </Tr>
  </Thead>
  <Tbody>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Actions</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to read workflow details.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Administration</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to access team details.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Checks</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read and post checks.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Commit statuses</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to read checks status.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Contents</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read repository content and write (merge).</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Issues</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to close issues on merge.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Metadata</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Access repository metadata.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Pages</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Write required to trigger page workflow on merge.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Pull requests</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read and edit pull requests.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Repository: Workflows</Td>
      <Td>Read and write</Td>
      <Td>Used to read workflows and merge pull requests modifying workflows.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Organization: Members</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to list organization members.</Td>
    </Tr>
    <Tr>
      <Td>Account: Email addresses</Td>
      <Td>Read-only</Td>
      <Td>Used to read user email addresses.</Td>
    </Tr>
  </Tbody>
</Table>
