src/content/merge-queue/performance.mdx, before:

---
title: Performance
description: Optimizing your merge queue for maximum efficiency.
---

import MergeQueueCalculator from "../../components/MergeQueueCalculator"
import rcvDiagram from "../images/merge-queue/rcv-theorem.png"
import { Info } from "../../components/Alerts/Info"
import { Card, CardBody } from '@chakra-ui/react';

As development teams scale and the volume of pull requests grows, achieving an
optimal balance between merge speed, reliability, and resource usage becomes a
paramount concern. Performance bottlenecks in the merge process can
significantly hamper a team's productivity. Leveraging the capabilities of
Mergify's merge queue configurations can help alleviate these challenges. This
guide dives deep into how you can tune your merge queue to strike the right
balance, ensuring a fast, cost-efficient, and reliable merging process tailored
to your team's needs.

### The Trade-offs: Reliability, Cheapness, and Velocity (RCV Theorem)

Before making any decision in configuring your merge queue, you need to
understand the trade-off that needs to be done. In the world of merging, three
critical properties influence the effectiveness of a merge queue:

1. **Reliability:** Ensure merges are accurate and won't cause issues.
2. **Cheapness:** Minimize the number of CI jobs executed.
3. **Velocity:** Increase throughput and decrease latency.

Similar to the [CAP theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem) for
data stores, you can only optimize two of these properties simultaneously. This
is what we term the **RCV Theorem**.

<figure style={{ maxWidth: '66%', margin: 'auto' }}>
  <img src={rcvDiagram} alt="RCV Theorem" />
</figure>

Based on this trade-off, there are 3 scenarios that you can choose from:

- **Reliable and Cheap:** This is the standard behavior, where each pull
  request is validated sequentially, ensuring reliability at a minimal CI cost.
  As every pull request is tested one after the other, there is no room for
  wasted CI time. However, this scenario is slow as only one PR is tested at a
  time.

- **Reliable and Fast:** If you aim to reduce latency and maximize throughput
  without considering CI costs, enable **[speculative
  checks](speculative-checks)**. This feature lets Mergify test pull requests
  in parallel, predicting potential merges and executing CI runs
  simultaneously. Speculative checks can slightly increase CI cost: there might
  be certain scenarios that are tested and whose results won't be used if a
  pull request ahead in the queue fails.

- **Cheap and Fast:** By using [batch mode](batches), you can merge groups of
  pull requests simultaneously. This reduces CI runs but merges pull request
  that are not tested individually. There is therefore a theoretical risk than
  a hidden failure is merged, while the whole batch passes the CI.
  
You can also combine speculative checks and batching to achieve a balanced
approach between reliability, cheapness, and velocity. This configuration
offers a mix of both strategies, allowing you to test multiple batches of
requests concurrently.

### Determining the Right Configuration for Speculative Checks and Batching

Optimizing the performance of your merge queue involves fine-tuning the number
of speculative checks and the size of batches. The right configuration balances
throughput, latency, and CI resource consumption. Here's a guide to help you
determine the optimal settings:

1. **Expected Merge Throughput**: Analyze your historical data to gauge the
   average number of merges per hour or per day. This will help set a benchmark
   for speculative checks and batch size, ensuring that pull requests are
   processed at the desired rate.

2. **Queue Latency**: Consider the typical wait time in the queue for a PR. Aim
   for settings that reduce this latency, but be mindful of the trade-offs.
   Reducing latency might lead to increased CI consumption or decreased
   reliability.

3. **Peak Load Periods**: Observe patterns to identify times when there's a
   surge in PR merges, such as during active developer hours. Adjust your
   settings to handle these peak periods efficiently, ensuring that the merge
   queue remains effective during high activity periods.

4. **CI Resource Availability**: Evaluate the resources allocated to your CI
   environment. If resources are abundant, you can lean towards higher
   speculative checks. Conversely, if resources are limited, consider a
   conservative approach to ensure that CI doesn't become a bottleneck.

5. **CI Job Duration**: The execution time of CI jobs can significantly
   influence your choice. Faster CI jobs might permit a higher number of
   speculative checks, as potential reruns won't lead to major delays. On the
   other hand, longer CI jobs necessitate a more conservative setting.

6. **Stability of Changes**: Reflect on the typical quality of pull requests in
   your repository. For repositories with a high rate of stable PRs, you might
   increase speculative checks or batch sizes. However, for those with frequent
   unstable PRs, a conservative approach might be more suitable.

7. **Team Size & Activity Patterns**: The size of your team and their activity
   patterns can also dictate your settings. Larger or globally distributed
   teams might have pull requests coming in throughout the day. Understanding
   these patterns can help in configuring the merge queue for optimal
   performance.

8. **Feedback Loop for Developers**: Ensure that the chosen configuration
   promotes a quick feedback loop. While speculative checks and batching can
   enhance queue performance, they shouldn't delay critical feedback to
   developers about the state of their PR.

By carefully considering and balancing these factors, you can configure your
merge queue to be both efficient and reliable. Remember, the right balance may
vary over time as your team grows and your development processes evolve.
Periodic reviews and adjustments can help maintain an optimal merge queue
performance.

### Performance Configuration Calculator

Optimizing your merge queue is a balancing act between throughput and CI
resource allocation. Our calculator is here to guide you in configuring the
optimal settings tailored to your team's workflow. Here's how to use it:

1. **CI time in minutes**: Input the average time it takes for your Continuous
   Integration to validate a change.

2. **Estimated CI success ratio in %**: Provide an estimate of how often your
   CI process returns a successful result. For instance, if your CI passes 90
   out of 100 times on average, you'd input 90%.

3. **Desired PRs to merge per hour**: Set your target for how many pull
   requests you'd like to merge within an hour at minimum.

4. **Desired CI usage in %**: Define how intensively you'd like to utilize your
   CI resources. A setting of 100% indicates a standard usage, matching a
   regular merge queue. Values below 100% will aim to conserve CI resources by
   leveraging batching, while values above 100% will prioritize higher
   throughput and reduced latency, even if it means using more CI time than
   usual.

Once you've input your parameters, the calculator will suggest the optimal
configuration for your merge queue, ensuring an efficient and seamless merging
process.

<Card>
  <CardBody>
    <MergeQueueCalculator />
  </CardBody>
</Card>

<Info>
  - This calculator optimizes CI usage and throughput but not latency. If you want
    to further optimize latency, you need to increase the number of speculative
    checks.

  - The average latency computing assumes that the number of PR merged per hour enters
    the queue at the beginning of the hour.

  - CI time is an important factor in those computing. If you want to optimize
    latency and throughput, you should make sure your CI time is as low and
    optimized as possible.
</Info>

### Concluding Thoughts

Mergify provides a range of configurations to tailor your CI budget and merge
queue strategy. Whether you're aiming for speed, cost-efficiency, or
reliability, our platform caters to diverse requirements. With Mergify, the
merging process becomes easier, faster, and safer, boosting your team's
performance.

Commit message:

docs(mq): add link to two-step from performance (#2529)
Change-Id: If40ec68874ad04b74c235c9bbd313fbbf0ecc29b

src/content/merge-queue/performance.mdx, after:

---
title: Performance
description: Optimizing your merge queue for maximum efficiency.
---

import MergeQueueCalculator from "../../components/MergeQueueCalculator"
import rcvDiagram from "../images/merge-queue/rcv-theorem.png"
import { Info } from "../../components/Alerts/Info"
import { Card, CardBody } from '@chakra-ui/react';

As development teams scale and the volume of pull requests grows, achieving an
optimal balance between merge speed, reliability, and resource usage becomes a
paramount concern. Performance bottlenecks in the merge process can
significantly hamper a team's productivity. Leveraging the capabilities of
Mergify's merge queue configurations can help alleviate these challenges. This
guide dives deep into how you can tune your merge queue to strike the right
balance, ensuring a fast, cost-efficient, and reliable merging process tailored
to your team's needs.

### The Trade-offs: Reliability, Cheapness, and Velocity (RCV Theorem)

Before making any decision in configuring your merge queue, you need to
understand the trade-off that needs to be done. In the world of merging, three
critical properties influence the effectiveness of a merge queue:

1. **Reliability:** Ensure merges are accurate and won't cause issues.
2. **Cheapness:** Minimize the number of CI jobs executed.
3. **Velocity:** Increase throughput and decrease latency.

Similar to the [CAP theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem) for
data stores, you can only optimize two of these properties simultaneously. This
is what we term the **RCV Theorem**.

<figure style={{ maxWidth: '66%', margin: 'auto' }}>
  <img src={rcvDiagram} alt="RCV Theorem" />
</figure>

Based on this trade-off, there are 3 scenarios that you can choose from:

- **Reliable and Cheap:** This is the standard behavior, where each pull
  request is validated sequentially, ensuring reliability at a minimal CI cost.
  As every pull request is tested one after the other, there is no room for
  wasted CI time. However, this scenario is slow as only one PR is tested at a
  time.

- **Reliable and Fast:** If you aim to reduce latency and maximize throughput
  without considering CI costs, enable **[speculative
  checks](speculative-checks)**. This feature lets Mergify test pull requests
  in parallel, predicting potential merges and executing CI runs
  simultaneously. Speculative checks can slightly increase CI cost: there might
  be certain scenarios that are tested and whose results won't be used if a
  pull request ahead in the queue fails.

- **Cheap and Fast:** By using [batch mode](batches), you can merge groups of
  pull requests simultaneously. This reduces CI runs but merges pull request
  that are not tested individually. There is therefore a theoretical risk than
  a hidden failure is merged, while the whole batch passes the CI.
  
You can also combine speculative checks and batching to achieve a balanced
approach between reliability, cheapness, and velocity. This configuration
offers a mix of both strategies, allowing you to test multiple batches of
requests concurrently.

### Determining the Right Configuration for Speculative Checks and Batching

Optimizing the performance of your merge queue involves fine-tuning the number
of speculative checks and the size of batches. The right configuration balances
throughput, latency, and CI resource consumption. Here's a guide to help you
determine the optimal settings:

1. **Expected Merge Throughput**: Analyze your historical data to gauge the
   average number of merges per hour or per day. This will help set a benchmark
   for speculative checks and batch size, ensuring that pull requests are
   processed at the desired rate.

2. **Queue Latency**: Consider the typical wait time in the queue for a PR. Aim
   for settings that reduce this latency, but be mindful of the trade-offs.
   Reducing latency might lead to increased CI consumption or decreased
   reliability.

3. **Peak Load Periods**: Observe patterns to identify times when there's a
   surge in PR merges, such as during active developer hours. Adjust your
   settings to handle these peak periods efficiently, ensuring that the merge
   queue remains effective during high activity periods.

4. **CI Resource Availability**: Evaluate the resources allocated to your CI
   environment. If resources are abundant, you can lean towards higher
   speculative checks. Conversely, if resources are limited, consider a
   conservative approach to ensure that CI doesn't become a bottleneck.

5. **CI Job Duration**: The execution time of CI jobs can significantly
   influence your choice. Faster CI jobs might permit a higher number of
   speculative checks, as potential reruns won't lead to major delays. On the
   other hand, longer CI jobs necessitate a more conservative setting.

6. **Stability of Changes**: Reflect on the typical quality of pull requests in
   your repository. For repositories with a high rate of stable PRs, you might
   increase speculative checks or batch sizes. However, for those with frequent
   unstable PRs, a conservative approach might be more suitable.

7. **Team Size & Activity Patterns**: The size of your team and their activity
   patterns can also dictate your settings. Larger or globally distributed
   teams might have pull requests coming in throughout the day. Understanding
   these patterns can help in configuring the merge queue for optimal
   performance.

8. **Feedback Loop for Developers**: Ensure that the chosen configuration
   promotes a quick feedback loop. While speculative checks and batching can
   enhance queue performance, they shouldn't delay critical feedback to
   developers about the state of their PR.

By carefully considering and balancing these factors, you can configure your
merge queue to be both efficient and reliable. Remember, the right balance may
vary over time as your team grows and your development processes evolve.
Periodic reviews and adjustments can help maintain an optimal merge queue
performance.

### Performance Configuration Calculator

Optimizing your merge queue is a balancing act between throughput and CI
resource allocation. Our calculator is here to guide you in configuring the
optimal settings tailored to your team's workflow. Here's how to use it:

1. **CI time in minutes**: Input the average time it takes for your Continuous
   Integration to validate a change.

2. **Estimated CI success ratio in %**: Provide an estimate of how often your
   CI process returns a successful result. For instance, if your CI passes 90
   out of 100 times on average, you'd input 90%.

3. **Desired PRs to merge per hour**: Set your target for how many pull
   requests you'd like to merge within an hour at minimum.

4. **Desired CI usage in %**: Define how intensively you'd like to utilize your
   CI resources. A setting of 100% indicates a standard usage, matching a
   regular merge queue. Values below 100% will aim to conserve CI resources by
   leveraging batching, while values above 100% will prioritize higher
   throughput and reduced latency, even if it means using more CI time than
   usual.

Once you've input your parameters, the calculator will suggest the optimal
configuration for your merge queue, ensuring an efficient and seamless merging
process.

<Card>
  <CardBody>
    <MergeQueueCalculator />
  </CardBody>
</Card>

<Info>
  - This calculator optimizes CI usage and throughput but not latency. If you want
    to further optimize latency, you need to increase the number of speculative
    checks.

  - The average latency computing assumes that the number of PR merged per hour enters
    the queue at the beginning of the hour.

  - CI time is an important factor in those computing. If you want to optimize
    latency and throughput, you should make sure your CI time is as low and
    optimized as possible.
</Info>

## Optimizing Merge Queue Time with Efficient CI Runs

To ensure your merge queue processes efficiently, it's essential that your
Continuous Integration (CI) system runs as quickly as possible. One way to
achieve this is by meticulously selecting the tests you run, ensuring that only
necessary tests are executed. Remember, every minute saved in CI time can have
a cascading positive effect on your overall merge efficiency.

A strategic approach to further optimize CI runtime is the [**Two-Step
CI**](two-step) method. This approach differentiates between:

1. **Preliminary Tests**: These are the tests run immediately when a PR is
created or updated. They're designed to be quick yet effective, ensuring only
quality PRs enter the merge queue.

2. **Comprehensive Tests**: These tests are more exhaustive and are run just
before merging, ensuring the final quality of the code.

By splitting your tests in this manner, you ensure that the merge queue is not
held up by lengthy CI processes for every minor PR update. Instead, the more
extensive tests are reserved for when PRs are about to be merged, providing a
balance between speed and code quality.

### Concluding Thoughts

Mergify provides a range of configurations to tailor your CI budget and merge
queue strategy. Whether you're aiming for speed, cost-efficiency, or
reliability, our platform caters to diverse requirements. With Mergify, the
merging process becomes easier, faster, and safer, boosting your team's
performance.
